---
layout: secret
title: "REAL Secret Review #6"
number: 6
link: ""
---

## This is a good game for skeletons.

### Secret 300 word review of A Very Wordy Title For A Game

If you are made of bones, you can have fun playing this game. The idea of this game is actually pretty good. Imagining having fun in this game is very easy. Unfortunately, the gameplay is nonexistant and most of my fun was actually just banter and pretending to be a ghost even though I was just a very big hole. It was fun to pretend to scheme and just sit and pass around a dice tray which was just the box lid. But it really is simply a relic of family night games Avalon Hill used to make. I can easily imagine 3 or 4 children with their parents sitting around and absolutely _draining_ 4 hours playing this game. 

Every single turn in this game is capable of extending itself because of encounters that occur or the many physical steps a turn can take such as rolling the dice, moving the pieces, talking to friends, drawing a card, placing a tile, talking to friends, pretending to attack, pretending to attack, yelling at friends, wondering if you did enough on your turn even though it really didn't matter, and then passing the dice box until you wonder if it's your turn because it's taking 20 minutes for you to take your next turn of rolling the dice and pretending to think.

There isn't really a game I've played that wastes time so efficiently as Betrayal on the House on the Hill, even saying the name printed on the box wastes my time. But I still can't completely disparage the game for what it is. I wouldn't be mad at a slot machine for being random, and I can't be mad at betrayalatthehouseonthehill for making me want to pull out my phone and watch girls on twitch in pools, hot tubs, and on beaches and pretend like I'm invested in the game and periodically make ghost sounds. 